Sweet, great,
let's get to every 15 milliseconds, and
in this case the first 15 milliseconds,
yeah, the first time,
let's get to what happens
on our callback queue.
Can I have, Justice,
what happens on our callback queue?
Yeah, don't worry, people, you're
doing incredibly, we're almost there.
On our callback queue,
what happens at 15 milliseconds
based on our interval that we set?
We've finished running that line,
it's done, but at 15 milliseconds, what
function is going to be added to the call
stack via the callback queue, Justice?
>> Got updateDOM.
>> updateDOM, it's gonna be called
callback queue for a second.
Let's put it on the call stack,
and updateDOM.
And we are now going to execute it.
So that means, everybody,
a brand new what?
>> Execution context.
>> Amazing, amazing, that is invigorating
at this point, an execution context.
And that execution context
is executed by JavaScript.
There's the pink parens as
why it was saying so nicely.
And we now start executing updateDOM, and
with its pink parens,
we are going to create a new brand
new execution context as
everybody rightly said.
And there it is,
how big is it gonna need to be?
Not nothing.
>> [LAUGH]
>> All right, not too bad, though.
Into it we go and we check if elems or
undefined, are they undefined or are they?
Yeah, they are not assigned at this point.
So we are going to run
our process of taking our
JavaScript representation
of our elements and
hitting each of them with
the convert function that's
gonna create associated
DOM elements in C++ and
associated corresponding
access objects in JavaScript.
To allow us to ongoing, interact with the
underlying DOM elements and potentially
change their content in an incisive
manner, not wipe them and restart.
I don't see any replaced
children here anymore.
Instead, we've got a find div that's
gonna work out what actual elems'
specific content to change based on
when we do have our latest vDOM,
the current data propagated into it.
In practice, by the way,
if you're looking close, and
if you can hold on,
we can make more changes in this.
Absolutely, we're doing a minimal div in
algorithm that can only, in this case,
by the looks of it change our content but
we're gonna expand it, no doubt.
elems is going to be
the result of hitting each
element of vDOM with the convert function,
it's gonna have execute convert with, so
let's just do my dotted line for
the map execution context.
And we go, and
the first thing inside is going to be
running convert on which
element in our vDOM?
Machick, in our first running
of convert inside of vDOM,
the chord map with convert paths,
which index are we?
>> In input.
>> Yeah, perfect, exactly right.
There it is.
Input the array.
>> Empty space.
>> No, what did I do wrong here?
There it is, calling convert on
exactly vDOM position index 0.
New execution context, no.
[LAUGH] We are not going in
it because we don't have it.
But we know it's there, just to be
really clear to everybody, it's there.
Yeah, it's there.
It's minimized.
And so we're passing in vDOM numbers
from 0, exactly as you said,
Machick, with this string input,
empty string, the handle function.
And I think what is pretty cool at this
point is we know exactly what it's doing.
Its output is going to be,
on the one hand,
the creation in the C++ DOM
of an input DOM element,
there it is, input DOM element.
And with convert,
we're also setting the value
of that element to an empty
string exactly and
setting the handler for inputs on it,
input handler-
>> To point to callback.
>> To refer to point to
the handle function, exactly.
There it is.
And that we have as in
JavaScript the output
of it is an object that
has a bunch of useful
functions that allow us to make edits
to the linked C++ element input.
And then we have a bunch
of useful functions here.
And that output will be added to
the array that is created in map.
It'll be pushed to that array.
We're going to do it two more times.
I'm not gonna write them out again,
actually I will.
Okay, there it is.
String div, string hello,
and a comma and exclamation mark.
And that is going to produce
an element over here
of-
>> Div.
>> Div,
exactly div with text content of hello
comma exclamation mark, nothing else.
And that then also produced
a corresponding object
with a link and with useful functions.
And the final one from the map was for
our last, yeah, the last div.
And, great job, and
there it is, squeeze it in.
And that will also
return out in JavaScript
an object with useful functions and
a link to a corresponding div node
in our DOM with the string
Great job as its text.
None of these show up quite yet.
But our map call inside of it,
put each of these
objects into an array.
And that array was returned out into,
Machick, what global constant?
The output of the call to map in line 14,
15 is gonna return out
to what global constant?
>> Which one, just an element?
>> Elems, exactly.
Exactly, spot on.
Into elems, there it goes.
And there we have an array with one,
two, three accessor objects,
each corresponding to
an underlying created DOM element.
And that's what we did in
line 14 with our elems,
it's a result of running convert on
each of our current vDOM elements.
Input empty string handle div Hello!,
div, Great job.
And then each of those created in convert,
we don't have the convert function here,
could run out of space but
we remembered what it id,
it created associated elements in the DOM.
In practice, it'd be a super, super
executing function, can handle anything,
inputs, divs, those are the two we have,
[LAUGH] list elements, other things.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, and
we then got our accessor objects and
we put them automatically through map.
Map always inside of it creates an array
into which each produced output of running
convert on each of the input elements
is pushed into that new output array.
And that is what we returned out exactly
as Machick said into the global label
elems.
And so in elems we have
three accessor objects that
we're gonna use actually from
now on to make incisive,
precise changes to
the underlying DOM elements.
I tried to squeeze them in a bit with
the thought that maybe I was going to be
adding new ones to replace the old ones.
Ah-ah, I'm not going to anymore, right?
But we're gonna have our link on
each of them to their corresponding
C++ DOM element, DOM node.
And they're gonna have their appropriate
methods and getter setter properties,
in this case we're actually just using
getter setter properties on them as well.
The first one that linked to an input
node has value on input and many others.
The second two are divs and
they have text content.
We've seen that again and again,
of course, there's many others,
not of course, these are many others, but
these are the ones we've used on repeat.
So let's do honor to them by
having them here as well.
There it is.
And so those are each linked to,
this is a big one, big line here.
These are each linked to corresponding,
no.
That'll do, okay,
corresponding, there we are.
I didn't get a very good line, did I?
Corresponding, yes.
What a shame.
I didn't do that very well.
Div, I did not do that very well.
Sorry, everyone.
>> [LAUGH]
>> There we go.
I didn't do that very well, did I?
That's a shame, right?
After such good diagramming for
a bit, that is,
everyone wants to have
the straight lines here, not the,
anyway, all right, so, but it's okay.
We now have access to objects for
our underlying DOM elements, great.
Let's get them,
not even replace children here.
What are we gonna do instead here, Alexa?
>> Append them.
>> Append them, exactly.
Because we ain't gonna be
replacing them anytime soon.
We might, but we're gonna do incisive
changes rather than replace as a whole.
And so we do document.body
which gets us our getter for
the body element to which
we run our append method.
And we are going to spread
each of these elems, so
it's elems position 0 the first argument,
elems position one,
second argument,
elems position two, third argument.
And that's going to take
our link to body and
append to that our linked
three elems as its children.
The funny term meaning
sub elements of body.
And so, Alexa, help me out.
What is gonna be added to our page here
at this point automatically through our
layout and render engine?
>> An input.
>> Absolutely.
>> And a div and another div.
>> Perfect.
>> And the input has an empty
string in it, so nothing.
>> Yep.
>> And then the first div has
hello space exclamation point, and
then the second div has Great job.
>> Beautiful.
My goodness, I think we have
successfully taken our initial state,
our initial data,
produced a JavaScript manifestation of it.
There it is.
And then we have created
through convert and
mapping over the JavaScript
implementation.
By the way, we could have sub-elements of
this, we could have a full tree structure.
In the challenges,
if you get a chance to work on their fab,
you can build this out without too many
changes to have it handle sub-elements,
multiple layers of sub-elements as it
does in full framework implementations,
UI framework implementations.
And that then leads to three, our
elements added to the DOM, the C++ list,
and the accessor for them, and then our
rendered displayed pixels on the page.